# Running and Building Docker Image with Vitis and Vivado

For an adaptable, independent and easy to get started development environment for continous development towards the KV260, we chose to create an container with the required software pre-configured.

This may serve as a resource if you want to install it straight in the host OS.

Keep in mind, this Docker is not optimized for GPU-accelerated training of Deep Learning models with GPU-passthrough. Likewise, it does not feature GUI passthrough (X11), e.g. for viewing the Vivado block-diagram/reports/area-diagrams. Though we wished to expand and incorporate these features, they simply were out of scope.



## Getting started using the container

Docker internal path for work is /work. Please mount development-folders from local machine as a subfolder to /work. Failing to mount folder to local filesystem may end in work being discarded/deleted.

Conda Environments may be set up by mounting a directory with files with the filename-pattern environment-*.yml into /work/environments/ (see example above). The entrypoint is configured to install environments when initiating. You may install the environments in buildtime, however to keep the size small and allow more flexibility, we've chosen to default to install at runtime.

### Prerequisite

Some familiarity with Docker is probably great.

Vivado/Vitis has some [system requirements](https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug973-vivado-release-notes-install-license/System-Memory-Recommendations), mainly in terms of RAM.

Vivado compilation are heavy processes, which may render your laptop unusable under some parts of the implementation. A somewhat decent system (CPU) is highly recommended.


### Import/Load Image

A prebuilt image may be loaded by 
([documentation](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/image/load/))

```bash
docker load -i hls4ml-kv260-testbench.tar.gz
```


### Run

The docker may be run by using the following docker-run command (adapted to your environment), or the provided docker compose with `docker compose up` (append `-d` to detach)

```bash
docker run --init -it --name hls4ml-kv260-testbench -p 8443:8443  \
    -v /path/to/development/:/work/development/ \
    -v ./environments/:/work/environments/ \
    hls4ml-kv260-testbench:final
```

The entrypoint launches VS Code on [http://127.0.0.1:8443/login](http://127.0.0.1:8443/login) or localhost:8443. The password is printed in log.

After initial run, it may be started again by `docker start hls4ml-kv260-testbench`.
Follow the logs with `docker logs hls4ml-kv260-testbench  -f`.
Exec into running container: `docker exec -ti hls4ml-kv260-testbench bash`
Restart (e.g. to install new environment) `docker restart hls4ml-kv260-testbench`
Stop `docker stop hls4ml-kv260-testbench`




## Notes on the Docker-structure
The user inside runs as root. Hence, files written by the container is owned by root. You may want to fix this.

Jupyter notebook may be configured by either installing at runtime (setting up an environment and passing `-p 8888:8888' with appropriate command at start) or uncommenting lines in dockerfile and building.



## Building and maintaining container

### Preparing Xilinx Installer Archive

The dockerfile installs Vivado/Vitis using the installer archive provided by Xilinx. You may want to download the complete insatller archive found on [Xilinx' download page](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vivado-design-tools/2025-2.html), e.g. AMD Unified Installer for FPGAs & Adaptive SoCs 2025.2 SFD (TAR/GZIP - 95.68 GB).

However, to keep the required disk space to a minimum, use the appropriate Web Installer to only download/archive the required files. Check out the images in [`images/vitis unified software platform/`](./images/vitis%20unified%20software%20platform/)


### Keep in mind

- The buildfile may work with defaults, but it's expected to be adjusted to your needs.
- Builder must provide the archive in the `installer/`-directory (or configured in dockerfile)
    - When building, the installer-archive is copied into the build-context and unpacked. It will take a LOT of space (on top of the downloaded archive), so make sure you have enough space available.
    - The installation is configured with the `install_config.txt`, generated by running xsetup in the installer-archive (Linux: `xsetup -b ConfigGen`).
    - For more information of the installation, see [Xilinx installation documentation](https://docs.amd.com/r/en-US/ug973-vivado-release-notes-install-license/Run-the-Installation-File).
    - An account is required to download software. However, Xilinx offers exemptions for licensing the software when targetting some devices, like the KV260, so you do not need to trouble yourself with stuff like that.
- If building on external machine, you may want to assure the process is not cancelled by intermittent networking or a laptop falling to sleep with tools/terminal emulations like tmux

### Building

For building the images yourself, do the build command from `HLS4ML_testbench_KV260/dockerbuild/`-directory.
It takes a lot of time and diskspace.

```bash
docker build -t hls4ml-kv260-testbench:v2025.2 .
docker image ls
```

Exporting image for others to import ([documentation](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/image/save/))

```bash
docker save hls4ml-kv260-testbench:final | gzip > hls4ml-kv260-testbench.tar.gz
```


## Problems encountered


When running in the Docker, we encoountered problems with crashes of the vpl-engine during compilation of the project to blockdiagram, seemingly with a webtalk-/telemetry-
Hotfix for libudev-crashes during synthesis ([post1](https://adaptivesupport.amd.com/s/article/000034450?language=en_US), [post2](https://community.revenera.com/s/question/0D5PL00000NwuKu0AJ/issues-when-running-xilinx-tools-or-other-vendor-tools-in-docker-environment))
Should be applied per process, in our cases in notebook when running hls4ml.build()
```python
import os
os.environ['LD_PRELOAD'] = '/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libudev.so.1'
```

Processes hung without ending properly when running block-level synthesis, silently stopping the synthesis. After some troubleshooting we figured we needed a [init process](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/run/#init) (`--init` flag).

The user inside is root, so `chown` may be needed to fix permissions when working with host OS' user.

Dependency issues. After a lot of trial and error, the current buildfile works for Vitis Unified Software Platform, though no guarantees for the future. This is the main motivation for using Docker in the first place, trying to eliminating platform-specific dependency issues.